# Predicting-Income-Using-Gaussian-Mixture-Model
Abstract
     The prominent wealth and income inequality is a major concern in the world. The possibility of poverty reduction is a valid reason for raising the increasing level of economic inequality in the world. Universal moral equality principle guarantees sustainable development and strengthens a nation's economic stability. Governments in different countries have tried their best. The purpose of this study is to illustrate the use of machine learning and data mining techniques to solve the problem of income equality. For this reason, the UCI(University of California,Irvine) Adult Dataset was used. Classification was performed to determine whether the annual income of an individual falls into the income category of either more than 50K dollars or less than 50K dollars category based on a certain collection of attributes. GMM(Gaussian Mixture Model) was used to build our prediction model and we aimed to achieve the highest accuracy in order to break the benchmark accuracy set by previous researchers.
 
Introduction
	
       Machine learning has given us a way to obtain information that is not explicitly defined. For example, classification allows us to see patterns that naturally occur for a particular set of attributes, which in turn allows us to make a business decision based on those patterns. A similar thing can be said with prediction, another machine learning application – the likelihood of something happening can indeed be predicted through correlations that occur within the dataset. Being able to apply this knowledge in a professional environment will be extremely beneficial both for the individual as a learning experience, and the businesses that make use of the information that come from it. Thus, for this project, we will attempt to perform machine learning prediction with the Gaussian Mixture Model clustering algorithm to further develop our skills in the field of machine learning. It will be used on the “Adult” data set, obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. 
